{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f30\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f31\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f34\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f35\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f36\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f37\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\qj \fi360\li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1040\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1040 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}{\s16\qj \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\tx6840\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text 2;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext17 Body Text 3;}}{\info{\title From Cafazzo S, Valsecchi P, Bonanni R, Natoli E, 2010}{\author qcoupt1}{\operator qcoupt1}{\creatim\yr2010\mo2\dy10\hr14\min57}{\revtim\yr2010\mo2\dy10\hr15\min25}{\version2}{\edmins11}{\nofpages1}
{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1134\margr1134\margt1417\margb1134 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180
\dgvspace180\dghorigin1134\dgvorigin1417\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale150\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\headery708\footery708\colsx708\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22 From Cafazzo S, Valsecchi P, Bonanni R, Natoli E, 2010. 
Dominance in relation to age, sex and competitive contexts in a group of free-ranging domestic dogs. Behav. Ecol. 19: 10.1093/beheco/arq001:
\par }{\fs22 
\par Current knowledge 
about social behaviour of free-ranging domestic dogs is scarce and the possibility that they could form stable social groups has been highly debated. An important issue to describe and explain social relationships among members of a group is the concept o
f dominance. To investigate the possibility that the concept of dominance can be used to describe dogs\rquote 
 social relationships, we studied the behaviour of a free-ranging group of domestic dogs in Rome. We analysed different behaviours (aggressive and dominan
ce behaviours, submissive behaviours and feeding behaviour) in different competitive contexts (in presence of receptive females, in presence of food and in absence of these sources of competition)  in order to establish if they could predict dominance rel
a
tionships among group members. Dominance relationships in the dog group remained stable across different competitive contexts and regardless of the behaviours considered. We distinguished among different type of dominance hierarchy: agonistic dominance, f
o
rmal dominance and competitive ability and we found evidences for the existence of all these type of dominance relationships among dogs. As in wolves, age and sex affected the dominance relationships: adults dominate over juveniles and most of males domin
a
te over females. Usually, in the presence of food dominant dogs gained access to this resource prevailing over subordinate dogs during competitions. On the basis of the findings of this research we can assert the existence of a social structure based on d
ominance relationships within free-ranging dog groups. 
\par }}